# Driver_Drowsiness_Detection
To measure the degree of exhaustion and drowsiness, a system will be developed that analyses both the driver's face and eyes. The indicators of driver fatigue are thought to be detectable early enough to prevent a possible traffic accident, which could result in serious injuries or fatalities. 

# Abstract
Driver drowsiness and exhaustion are the most common causes of car accidents. Every year, the number of deaths and fatal injuries caused by accidents rises. A system should be developed that can identify the driver's fatigue in real-time, resulting in a reduction in the number of road accidents and an increase in transportation safety. The major goal of this project is to create and deploy a system capable of detecting and alerting the driver's level of fatigue in real-time. A system will be made which will analyse both the driver's face and eyes to measure the degree of fatigue and drowsiness.  it is assumed that the signs of driver fatigue can be detected early enough to prevent a possible road accident, which could result in severe injuries or ultimately, in fatalities.
To measure the degree of exhaustion and drowsiness, a system will be developed that analyses both the driver's face and eyes. The indicators of driver fatigue are thought to be detectable early enough to prevent a possible traffic accident, which could result in serious injuries or fatalities. The system will activate an alert noise or light based on the output, which will alert the driver.
A deep learning model will be used to classify photos when a human eye is closed or open in order to create this system. As a result, a score will be generated on the basis of fatigue. This score is determined by the length of time the eyelids remain closed. Throughout the driving session, the score is kept. If that score rises above a certain point and reaches a certain threshold, this model will activate automated processes, causing the alarm to start buzzing loudly.
